Um, my name is Kalaphat and my nickname is Florence and I'm, I'm, how old are you?

I'm 14 years old but next month I will be 15.

Uh, I, I was born in Ayutthaya and come here to studies in Bangkok, so I now live in Bangkok near the, near the school, uh, like around 7-Eleven.

I use it everyday like, uh, four hours a day.

And, yeah.

Um, app and website I like best is, I think it's Instagram because their news feed is really interesting.

It's related to the things that I love and enjoy doing and also I can text with my friends on it and also making a video call.

Um, I see a girl writing a notebook and she has uh short hair and she wears a hoodie.

Uh, she's writing, I think a homework and she's using her laptop to do her homework and on the desk it have a book, uh, three books.

Uh, they have science and English grammar and something I cannot read.

On her background, uh, I can see her bed and her, on the wall it have pictures hanging on it and she have a bookshelf that have many books and a plants on it.

And also she's, uh, a table she's sitting is near a window and I think it's, uh, a day where, where she do it.

Okay, first Kaohom.

Yeah, I think that's so, I think it's also great, uh, activity to do but I think for me, uh, playing board game is also a great activity to do with your friends so you, so you won't be bored.

Uh, for me I have a siblings so I often play the game with them instead of cooking because I often don't like, uh, how they just, uh, shake the cooking and I think it was more fun to do a board game.

Yeah, I get your point.

I think board game it's look really interesting to do with your friends or your siblings.

Sometimes I also play board game with my family and my brother too.

Uh, I think painting it's really interesting activity with your friends because like you can paint something together to keep the memory or like paint something that you are enjoy doing together.

I think it will give you memory and show your new idea and share it together.

Yeah, I think so because like painting can like paint the memory together and we can spend time together painting.

Um, for I think for the best I think we go for board games.

I also think that too because I have a older brother and room too and uh whenever we have a dinners, we, we have a dinner he's always playing on his phone and my dad told him to stop but he just all the time.

And also my dad also play uh a phone all the time when he at home.

I think the best things, I can, can I have a question again?

I think the best thing having on the internet is we can find uh information quicker and I think it's more correct than reading a book because I spend less time reading a book and sometime I don't understand uh like some word, yeah.

I think it's better to play game with friends because we can enjoy the time together and play with friends is more, more, more enjoyable and fun because we can talk together when we are playing and playing together is like you can share your idea and like yes, it's very fun.

Um, for me I when I didn't have a digital, I'm just go to sleep or maybe had a talk, I did talk with my siblings or my family.

Um, I think school should allow students to use phone in the class because sometime we have to do a research or searching information for our work and homework.

It's like you can use it in the useful way and the correct way if you can separate your time properly.

Thanks.
