WREN GILLETT, REPORTER: Hey Justina.

JUSTINA WARD, REPORTER: Hey Wren.

WREN: That was great. But just don't say my name this time.

JUSTINA: Hey?

WREN: That was great. We got it. We got it.

JUSTINA: (Humming)

WREN: Just a bit louder for me?

JUSTINA: Testing, oh that is loud.

Imagine being filmed without even knowing it.

WREN: Perfect. We got it. We got it!

JUSTINA: Ah WREN. How did you film this?

Well actually, you don't need to imagine anything, because this kinda tech is here, and has been for a hot minute.

EVEN REALITIES G2 AD: They might look like ordinary glasses, but the moment you wear them, everything changes.

Smart glasses have been around since the early twenty-tens, but they didn't really take off. Then in 2021, this collaboration between Ray-Ban and Meta attempted to make smart glasses more fashionable. And this year, that concept was taken to a whole new level.

KYLIE JENNER X META GLASSES AD: Hey Meta, take a picture.

Now, there are heaps of different versions of this technology out there, including this 89-dollar version from Kmart, which launched and sold-out last week. And many of them can do a lot more than just take videos.

KYLIE JENNER: My Meta glasses have my voice, so when you talk to Meta, it's me talking to you. So I've just been talking to myself.

They can respond to voice commands, play music, make calls. Some use AI to identify landmarks in real time, give you directions in your field of view, and translate foreign languages instantly.

EVEN REALITIES G2 AD: So that you can always connect.

For some, this sort of tech is life-changing, particularly people with vision or hearing impairments. For others, they make work and travel easier and are kinda fun.

WREN: But not everyone's the biggest fan.

JUSTINA: Can't believe you were filming the whole time.

TIKTOK: Stalker glasses, they're not just for stalkers anymore.

TIKTOK: These eyeglasses should have never been created.

Yeah, a lot of people think the idea of being discreetly filmed is pretty creepy. While many versions of these glasses have lights that indicate when they're recording, like this. Others don't. Some people are even buying patches to cover them or are paying people to remove them.

TIKTOK: Low-key, that's kind of creepy.

WREN: In Australia, you're generally allowed to film people in public places, like a beach or a sidewalk. But if you're on private property, you have to ask for permission.

And if you're in a place where people expect privacy, like a bathroom, changeroom, or bedroom, filming is illegal.

JUSTINA: I'm worthy. I'm calm. I am Justina. WRENNN!

WREN: Hey.

It's also illegal to film people inappropriately or record a private conversation. But while filming people without their knowledge isn't necessarily against the law, a lot of people say it's not ethical.

JUSTINA: C'mon, gimme.

In fact, some people are calling for our privacy laws to be updated, to take into account this sort of technology. And others have said these types of glasses should be banned altogether.

JUSTINA: Also, delete whatever this is.

WREN: Fair enough.